README.md, before:

# Overview

A firmware (an Arduino sketch) written for the Arduino Pro Mini-based electronic clock I made in 2022.

## Concept

I had made this clock and written the initial functional sketch for the ATmega328P-based Arduino Pro Mini knockoff board
in 2022, and it works okay, but in order to improve the device's maintainability I wrote the updated firmware and
the docs. If you like this project for some reason, feel free to use the code and the docs as you please.

The sketch:
* Drives a multiplexed 7-segment display using a single 74HC595 shift register IC and
a set of 4 GPIO-driven transistors.
* Interfaces with a DS3231 RTC IC (breakout board) to track time.

![1.png](extras/images/1.png)

![2.jpg](extras/images/2.jpg)

![3.jpg](extras/images/3.jpg)

## Schematic

Far from perfect: base drive resistors should have higher values, pull-down resistors should be added to bases, etc.
But hey, it works. 

![circuit_diagram_(schematic).png](extras/images/circuit_diagram_(schematic).png)

## Dependencies

See the sketch file include directives, see the links below.

## Links

### Git repositories

#### This project
* [Primary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/ErlingClock1)
* [Backup repository on GitFlic](https://gitflic.ru/project/efimov-d-v/erlingclock1)
* [Backup repository on Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/ErlingSigurdson/ErlingClock1)

#### Drv7SegQ595 by ErlingSigurdson
* [Primary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/Drv7SegQ595)
* [Backup repository on GitFlic](https://gitflic.ru/project/efimov-d-v/drv7segq595)
* [Backup repository on Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/ErlingSigurdson/Drv7SegQ595)

#### SegMap595 by ErlingSigurdson
* [Primary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/SegMap595)
* [Backup repository on GitFlic](https://gitflic.ru/project/efimov-d-v/segmap595)
* [Backup repository on Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/ErlingSigurdson/SegMap595)

#### uButton by AlexGyver
* [Maintainer's repository](https://github.com/GyverLibs/uButton)
* [My fork](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/uButton)

#### GyverDS3231 by AlexGyver
* [Maintainer's repository](https://github.com/GyverLibs/GyverDS3231)
* [My fork](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/GyverDS3231)

### Miscellaneous

* An [article](https://vk.ru/@-214685134-elektronnye-chasy-na-arduino-i-module-ds3231ds1307?subtype=primary)
I wrote on this project in 2022. The pinned sketch is legacy (consider it to be version 1.0.0, deprecated), and
overall writing doesn't satisfy me anymore, but I don't care enough to do something about this one.
* File archive: [storage #1](https://disk.yandex.ru/d/ZkYEhKhuj1vNvg), [storage #2](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1e0xsmpC7yQtPBWnrMO5NivBALOWTDool?usp=sharing).

## License

This stuff is licensed under the **MIT License** (see `LICENSE` [here](LICENSE)).

Commit message:

Add note on charging circuit removal.

README.md, after:

# Overview

A firmware (an Arduino sketch) written for the Arduino Pro Mini-based electronic clock I made in 2022.

## Concept

I had made this clock and written the initial functional sketch for the ATmega328P-based Arduino Pro Mini knockoff board
in 2022, and it works okay, but in order to improve the device's maintainability I wrote the updated firmware and
the docs. If you like this project for some reason, feel free to use the code and the docs as you please.

The sketch:
* Drives a multiplexed 7-segment display using a single 74HC595 shift register IC and
a set of 4 GPIO-driven transistors.
* Interfaces with a DS3231 RTC IC (breakout board) to track time.

![1.png](extras/images/1.png)

![2.png](extras/images/2.png)

![3.png](extras/images/3.png)

## Schematic

Far from perfect: base drive resistors should have higher values, pull-down resistors should be added to bases, etc.
But hey, it works. 

![circuit_diagram_(schematic).png](extras/images/circuit_diagram_(schematic).png)

### Hint: charging circuit

It is a common knowledge that most cheap DS3231 breakout boards have a backup battery charging circuit that is, first,
designed for rechargeable batteries (like ML2032), and second, designed rather poorly. Since I use a non-rechargeable
CR2032 battery, I followed a common advice and removed the diode and the resistor that constitute the said circuit
(removing any of them would be enough, but I removed both anyway).

![4.png](extras/images/4.png)

![5.png](extras/images/5.png)

## Dependencies

See the sketch file include directives, see the links below.

## Links

### Git repositories

#### This project
* [Primary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/ErlingClock1)
* [Backup repository on GitFlic](https://gitflic.ru/project/efimov-d-v/erlingclock1)
* [Backup repository on Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/ErlingSigurdson/ErlingClock1)

#### Drv7SegQ595 by ErlingSigurdson
* [Primary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/Drv7SegQ595)
* [Backup repository on GitFlic](https://gitflic.ru/project/efimov-d-v/drv7segq595)
* [Backup repository on Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/ErlingSigurdson/Drv7SegQ595)

#### SegMap595 by ErlingSigurdson
* [Primary repository on GitHub](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/SegMap595)
* [Backup repository on GitFlic](https://gitflic.ru/project/efimov-d-v/segmap595)
* [Backup repository on Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/ErlingSigurdson/SegMap595)

#### uButton by AlexGyver
* [Maintainer's repository](https://github.com/GyverLibs/uButton)
* [My fork](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/uButton)

#### GyverDS3231 by AlexGyver
* [Maintainer's repository](https://github.com/GyverLibs/GyverDS3231)
* [My fork](https://github.com/ErlingSigurdson/GyverDS3231)

### Miscellaneous

* An [article](https://vk.ru/@-214685134-elektronnye-chasy-na-arduino-i-module-ds3231ds1307?subtype=primary)
I wrote on this project in 2022. The pinned sketch is legacy (consider it to be version 1.0.0, deprecated), and
overall writing doesn't satisfy me anymore, but I don't care enough to do something about this one.
* File archive: [storage #1](https://disk.yandex.ru/d/ZkYEhKhuj1vNvg), [storage #2](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1e0xsmpC7yQtPBWnrMO5NivBALOWTDool?usp=sharing).

## License

This stuff is licensed under the **MIT License** (see `LICENSE` [here](LICENSE)).
